W-17700088-outbound-policies-fa (#757)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-outbound-basic-auth.adoc

| | 403 - Forbidden: Authentication succeeded, but access is denied.
| | 500 - Unauthorized or invalid client application credentials in WSDL API using SOAP 1.1
|===

== Summary

The Basic Authentication: Simple policy protects the API by enabling automatic injection of Basic Authentication credentials into outbound requests. This policy ensures that requests sent from Flex Gateway to an upstream service include the correct authentication headers.

The policy follows https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7617[basic HTTP authentication standards^].

When an error is encountered, the policy returns an "WWW-Authenticate" HTTP header field.

== Configuring Policy Parameters

=== Flex Gateway Local Mode

In Flex Gateway Local Mode, you apply the Basic Authentication: Simple policy to your API via declarative configuration files. Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

----
- policyRef:
    name: http-basic-authentication-flex
  config:
    username: <string> // REQUIRED
    password: <string> // REQUIRED
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `username`
| Required
| N/A

> | A base-64 encoded string

Reviewer: what does it means? it is not in base64, neither the password

| `password`
| Required
| N/A

> | A base-64 encoded string

Reviewer: some parameters are missing
overwirte and customHeader

refer: https://github.com/mulesoft/microgateway-api-policies-definitions-library/blob/master/credential-injection-basic-auth/policy-definition.json

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

----
- policyRef:
    name: http-basic-authentication-flex
  config:
    username: chris
    password: admin
----

=== Flex Gateway Connected Mode

> When you use the UI to apply the Message Logging policy to your API, you can configure the following parameters:

Reviewer: message logging?

= Credential Injection Basic Authentication Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: basic authentication, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | Credential Injection Basic Authentication
>s|Summary      | Injects a basic authorization header into outgoing requests
>s|Category | Security
>s|First Flex Gateway version available | v1.9.0
>s| Returned Status Codes | No return codes exist for this policy. Error codes are returned from the upstream service.
|===

== Summary

> The Credential Injection Basic Authentication policy injects an `Authorization` header containing a username and password into outbound requests. This policy ensures that requests sent from Flex Gateway to an upstream service include the correct authentication headers. The Authorization header is formatted as `Authorization: Basic <username:password>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Credential Injection Basic Authentication policy injects an `Authorization` header containing a username and password into outbound requests. The policy ensures that requests sent from Flex Gateway to an upstream service include the correct authentication headers. The Authorization header format is `Authorization: Basic <username:password>`.
```

> The policy follows https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7617[Basic HTTP authentication standards^].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The policy follows https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7617[Basic HTTP authentication standards].
```

> When an error is encountered, the policy returns an "WWW-Authenticate" HTTP header field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an error occurs, the policy returns a `WWW-Authenticate` HTTP header field.
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

=== Flex Gateway Local Mode

In Flex Gateway Local Mode, you apply the Basic Authentication: Simple policy to your API via declarative configuration files. Refer to the following policy definition and table of parameters:

----
- policyRef:
    name: http-basic-authentication-flex
  config:
    username: <string> // OPTIONAL
    password: <string> // OPTIONAL

>     overwrite: <boolean> // REQUIRED

Reviewer: this is optional, default is true

    customHeader: <string> // OPTIONAL
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required or Optional | Default Value | Description

| `username`
| Optional
| N/A
| The username for the basic authentication credentials.

| `password`
| Optional
| N/A
| The password for the basic authentication credentials.

| `overwrite`
| Optional
| true
| When enabled, if the `Authorization` header is present, the policy overwrites it with the configured credentials.

| `customHeader`
| Optional
| N/A

> | When configured, a custom header is injected instead of the `Authorization` header. If *Overwrite header* is enabled, the policy overwrites the custom header is present instead of the `Authorization` header.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| When configured, a custom header is injected instead of the `Authorization` header. If *Overwrite header* is enabled, the policy overwrites the custom header if present instead of the `Authorization` header.
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is the correct suggestion.

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

----
- policyRef:
    name: http-basic-authentication-flex
  config:
    username: chris
    password: admin
----

=== Flex Gateway Connected Mode

When you use the UI to apply the Credential Injection Basic Authentication policy to your upstream, you can configure the following parameters:

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Parameter |Description | Required?
|Username |The username for the basic authentication credentials. |Optional
|Password |The password for the basic authentication credentials. |Optional
|Overwrite header |When enabled, if the `Authorization` header is present, the policy overwrites it with the configured credentials.|Optional

> |Custom Header |When configured, a custom header is injected instead of the `Authorization` header. If *Overwrite header* is enabled, the policy overwrites the custom header is present instead of the `Authorization` header.|Optional

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Custom Header |When configured, a custom header is injected instead of the `Authorization` header. If *Overwrite header* is enabled, the policy overwrites the custom header if present instead of the `Authorization` header.|Optional
```

Reviewer 2: Same comment as previous that I'm not sure if this is the correct suggestion.
